Writing by Hand
===============

> In which we talk about observations while writing into a journal made by a
> crafter.  I was lucky enough to find an item I loved that was made with love
> by a vendor at the Minnesota Renaissance festival.  I made this shopping trip
> with my wife, and purchasing fun things was the purpose of the trip.  So I
> picked up a little leather-bound blank book.  As a first usage, I wrote about
> it.

I am transcribing here to the best of my ability.  Most, not all, small details
of this writing are discussed in the following pages.  But first I should point
out that I have long held an affection for small blank booklets.  I frequently
wish to take quick notes, and having a portable writing implement and space to
use it is a simple delight.

More that being joyful, having that tool to write helps me overcome inertia
against writing at all.  I love writing, I have many ways to go about doing it.
I also have a modern busy life and loved ones - all pulling my attention in
unpredictable ways.  The ability to write any where, any time, and with minimal
time to spin-up or commitment to keep pace, and without any penalty for
interruption...that is truly invaluable.

I have no fewer than four portable computers that ostensibly should fulfill
this same role.  Somehow they do not.  The notebook I am writing about here is
somewhat blocky due to having many sheets of thick paper, and so seems harder to
carry than a cell-phone.  But it is so drastically better for writing that it
more than overcomes that small disadvantage.

I have made recent efforts and self-commitments to actively practice writing.
And although I've written previously, and will do so in this very article, about
how publishing is not crucial to my satisfaction, I do wish to practice it.  So
I am copying from the booklet to this first post.  I think a lot will be lost in
the transcription, and I'm already stumped about how best to cover some details.
I think that's an acceptable loss to make sure I create internet-infinite copies
before I drop my small journal into a puddle.

I also hope that some reader on the wide world web will enjoy the writing in its
reduced form.  I hope I can preserve the original, so they can some day observe
the details I embedded in real life pages.  I promise there are many of those,
because I was thoroughly enjoying my new journal.  Also I could just xerox it, i
guess.

<aside>This is the end of the introduction.  Unless noted, all the following was
writing into the book.  Subheadings are added where helpful; mostly
chronographically.</aside>

<style> time { margin-right: 0.5em; }</style>

Acknolwedgements
----------------

This journal was made by the artist and crafter Stephanie, doing business with
her company Under the Mango Tree Journals.  They can be reached [via the Face
Book](https://www.facebook.com/underthemangotreejournals/) to via electronic
post sent to [underthemangotreejournals delivered by Google
mail](mailto:underthemangotreejournals@gmail.com).

Thanks to her.

First Sitting
-------------

The first thing I noted about this journal...I truly cannot remember.  But I
remember many things in no particular order.

* it included paper
* that paper was replaceable (I had no confirm from the seller; I assumed it was
  the opposite.)
* it was interesting

<time datetime="2023-09-30">Sat. Sep 30 2023</time> re: the day before

---

The second thing I noticed about this journal was that I liked the paper.  It is
bumpy and weird, and that made me feel it was unique.  The shop keeper told me
that although she did not make it herself, it was hand-made and would last a
lifetime.  Cotton, in particular.

I didn't know that cotton paper was a thing.  I still don't know how to make it.

<time datetime="2023-09-30">Sat Sep 30 2023</time> Waiting for Drosslemeier
(sp?).

---

The third thing I noticed about this journal was its clasp.  It was cool and
functional and seemed like it "would last a lifetime".  I don't know if I
realized it at the time, but the leather flag is great for holding a pen.

<time datetime="2023-09-30">Sat Sep 30 2023</time> @ BJ's dining

---

The fourth thing I noticed: the cool set-in on the "cover".  (Quotes because
earlier I had considered buying a "binding", which is, I guess, the same as this
journal, except it does not come with refillable paper included.

I didn't actually like that rock as much as I liked this journal's cool blue
one.  "Lapis" the shopkeeper called this journal's.

<time datetime="2023-09-30">Sat Sep 30 2023</time> hiding from panoptics

After Nana's Party
------------------

The fifth: I was charged less than I expected.  Upon double-checking the tag, I
realized my Lapis item had no clasp at all.

The shopkeep resolved my beauty versus function quandry by offering to add one
for a modest fee.  I simply had to wait.

While that wait, I saw a simple bulletin board that I had not noticed before.  I
used it to scrawl a riddle about a secret passage I had discovered earlier.

<time datetime="2023-10-01">Sun Oct 1 2023</time>No return to the fair this
year.

---

Sixth: I would need a good pen.  Something with good ink and no need for strong
friction.  Perhaps some expensive device that required its own careful
maintenance.  Maybe a quill.

I asked the shopkeeper for her recommendation.  She had little preference except
avoiding pencil.  I thanked and wished her well for the 2nd to last time.

We considered visiting the pen store on our way out of the fair.  But that
proprietor was over-eager to joke about violence, and a bullet-shaped pen is not
my style.

<time datetime="2023-10-01">Sun Oct 1 2023</time>Depart by bus and introspect
out loud

Unexpected workday marathon
---------------------------

Seventh: none of my loved ones liked the journal for the same reasons that I
did.  That's fine; it isn't for them.

I intended to show it off to other people, too.  Friends.  I carefully planned
and packed it amoung other prizes from the festival of craft goods.  I didn't
show them afterall, and a week later I'm glad about that.  I'm glad I am no
longer a small child, sitting and playing only for the hope of a bystander's
attention.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time> Still re: the first day

---

8th: my family was only mildly interested in what I thought about my new toy.
Their complaints made no impact to my journal, but I listened anyway because
they were talking about what would matter to them.  I hope they find their
perfect toy.

They offered me interesting advice about my own complaints.  I can't remember
what they said, but I know I was grateful.

For example, my wife suggested gel-roller pens.  That was awesome because a
quill would have unable to pack within the flap.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

---

9th: My Wife also solved one truly heartbreaking complaint of mine.  The moment
I say down with my fine, inexpensive, unassuming pend, I noticed that my
binding's beautiful inset gem and awesome, durable, functional slasp combined to
make it impossible for the front cover to lay flat.  I wept for the joy I had in
my imagination of the future.  It was gone; my yow was a mere pretty curio.

My Wife healed my heart, by telling me...

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

---

10th: that she agreed with me that writing only on the <span
style="text-decoration: strikethrough;">left</span> of the fold was a fine way
to journal in this book.

I had noticed that was an option while speaking to Her my complaint.  Or maybe I
heard Her think it, which is definitely a thing that happens between Her and I.
We've been married long enough; it is expected.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>  

    In which taking  
    credit for noticing is  
    both silly and lonely.

---

11th - I noticed I was wrong that writing on the right side was not only
possible, but quite pleasant.

I expected the girth of small area or bumpy paper, or all combined, to require
me to securely hold down the journal in order to write.  But in practice it was
no challenge at all to roll my pend's tip over the paper and produce a legible
script.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

    Do not expect failure,  
    nor disappointment.

---

12th: I noticed I could alter the appearance of my handwriting by adjusting the
position of the book.  My hand could take any comfortable position and grip.

I had long before discovered that I could effect a stylization of my writing by
changing my grip.  But all grips required some level of strain.  This journal,
on the other hand, causes very little.  And _ergonomic_ variety is always
available.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

---

13th I noticed that, although the paper was not flat, and the flow of ink not
consistent, and pen grip imperfect...in spite of all those things, my writing
was still legible.  At least to me.

I could write smaller words without loss of legibility, even.  This challenged
everything I had believed about how to have clear writing.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

    No really, gel-rollers  
    are fantastic.

---

14th I noticed that I had a little piece of modern printing, and it bothered me
to retain it.

"Aha!" I thought.  I could simply transcribe its value into the journal itself,
so no extra tedium was needed.  But by then I had already started my thematic
writing.  Already dreamed of transcribing, publishing, and of leaving the
original as a treasurable artifact.

Well...the paper and ink only.  Not the binding.  It is removable and reusable,
after all.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

A bookmark, then?  No: the flap for that.

---

15th - there was an empty left side page.  And so what if it was uncomfortable?
It was only a single page to write on a bumpy ball of lapis and protruding
clasp.  I can tolerate one page.

It turned out to be no strain at all.  Poor penmanship, perhaps.  But I was
still learning to write clearly and without mental barrier.  I spoke to the
shopkeeper for the last time.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

    You can always  
    thank someone more.

---

16th I noticed that there were only 11 leaves of this cottom paper.  I had hoped
for more.  40 seemed like a good number, again because I had dreams of
publishing.

I convinced myself that fewer would be acceptable.  But now, seeing and feeling
the last page approaching, I know that my self was not entirely convinced.

To make a plan to cut off my list, or to prioritize amoung options and forget
others...it seems so sad.  I don't want to.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

---

17th that my nice pend's ink could be seen through the other side of the paper.

    But not seen clearly.  
    Some pages not at all.  
    Affected by my grip?  
    Or by cotton's thickness?  
    And because I spaced lines,  
    Never the whole page.  

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

Definitely when held to a light.  But that is good, and beside the point.

---

18th that the shop keep might have lied.  These pages cannot easily be de-bound.
At least, not one 11-leaf bunch at a time.

I am sorry, Stephanie, to have maligned.  You could never have known that I
would wish to cut one single folded bundle of five.

---

19th that were was no need to cut a bundle.  To do so would disproportion the
perfect sizes of the flap and bunches and pen holder.

True, I had hoped to finish these 40 observations within a single bunch.  But as
my Princess so often says: I can handle disappointment.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

    Existence,  
    not Acceptance.

---

20th thing I noticed:

This journal seems to hold some subtle magic.  Each time I believe I have
disappointed, I realized that I was wrong.

Anything I believe to be impossible...simply is not.

* 40 things?
* In the first 11 folds?
* One thing per half-fold?


<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

    Won't I ruin it?  
    If I do not give up?

Two times eleven is fourty-two
------------------------------

    This is  
    the end.  
    Could be.  
    Might be.  
    Is not

21st: No, fool.  Only ending early would ruin it.

<time datetime="2023-10-06">Fri Oct 6 2023</time>

<img src="./map.png" alt="a map on a scroll with a meandering
path leading to an X." width=100 /><br style="clear: both;" />

> New pen though.  Felt tip.  0.5, baby.

---

I don't need numbers anyway.  It stopped being fun to count them down.

Also it turned int oa fun game to aim for the last page.  Now that I nailed it,
it's obvious what number I'm on.

---

This new pen might be too limiting.  Felt and cotton don't mix, maybe.  They
seem to be vulnerable to bleed.  And unlike my gel rollered scrawl, I do not
think my writing looks nice even when blurred beyond verifiable spelling.  But
with proper space...

---

In fact, it might be better for it to be less legible.  It will make it harder
to be distracted when starting from the begining if the words are only barely
discernable.

No 18th date?  Strange.

**17**

---

^- My felt pen can definitely bleed, but I have to allow it to linger.  With a
light touch, no problem.  Some times my strokes join together, though that comes
from my paper sprinting back up to meet it.  This pen requires even less
pressure than the gell roller.  Amazing.  I chose it because it was finer; it
would make smaller strokes.  You would tihnk the bleed might ruin that.  You'd
be wrong.

---

42 is the real magic number, and not for some other writer's meme.  I don't know
when I decided I to be cryptic - it's just the number I substract from to find
my bearings in the new page count.  (ooooh, oblique grip angle produces fine
lines indeed.)

I needed to solve that trivial math problem several times to find the correct
figure.  Maybe I don't want to spoil a surprise for the reader that eventually
finds this journal.  I hope it isn't pride in my meager discovery.

I learned several pages ago (can't say exactly) that it does not matter the
appearance of the words.  Nor sticking to a theme.  I can write whatever I want.
Because this book is a thing for me.  I can copy the words later, as long as I
can see them.

---

It was not uncomfortable, and it was no strain!  There was never any limitation
but that which I imposed on myself.  I could have been writing on both sides of
the paper the entire time!  I was avoiding a problem that didn't exist.

---

But I am so glad that I did.  I am glad I imposed a pointless constraint on
myself.  It created a wonderful, weird, unexpected outcome.  And the
oppoortunity to try this thing with upside downness.  It can be an homage to my
Princess.

In solving my simple problem of multiples of two and folds and spares, of 2s and
fives, and then 11, and somehow 3 and 7.

And then I realized that it was a simple matter of counting from 1, or some
other gence post error, and all my confusion melted.

Maybe my ability to publish is lost, this being such a personal journey of mind.

---

So what if I do not publish?  Sure, t'would be fun.  But if I allow publishing
to halt my pend, then I will have nothing to publish.

I have learned this crucial lesson already: showing your writing is not what
makes you a writer.  Writing is.  I write for me.  Not to be known.  I am
already known.  And by abandoning my desire to write what might be broadly read,
my writing becomes better.

---

OR! the opposite.  I could publish.  I should not be afraid to rpesent my work
to an audience, for fear that they might not appreciate.  I write for those who
do.  And I write for me.  I will find any comradery with others, and not fear
the others.

    Read my wild rambling.  
    Begin and do not finish.  
    I don't take a journey for  
      the sake of those who don't.  
    I will meet you at the end.  
    We will recollect the middle.  
    Pity those who told us not to go  
    But did not miss us.


---

    If I mix truth in with imagination  
    or the reverse  
    Fact and fiction benefit both.  
    If I call it a story  
    Or just a string of thoughts  
    To keep a theme
    To vary, profane  
    To me, no worry, all the same

Oct Seven - yesterday's marathon
--------------------------------

I surprised myself with those twenty-four pages.  Not all one sitting, and that
last stanza only just not early this morn.  The length was not too wild; I knew
I could endure when my spirit willed it.  And I had mustered that will quite
recently, for a different audience which was stolen, and for much greater
physical suffering.

The surprise was I was not certain I could so much of this project.  Perhaps
ever.  40 pages felt impossible for me.  Maybe it still seems that way, when I
consider my initial mindset of attempting a chronological memoire on this very
inspirational notebook.

But I was so correct 22 pages ago - this notebook is magic.  It melts all
barriers.  I hope it is inexhaustible.

<time datetime="2023-10-07">Sat Oct 7 2023</time>

> Problem, Algorithm,  
> Program, Process.  
> Change the first if you can.  
>
> - Richard Buckland

---

That basic arithmetic continues to be challenging for me.  Why would I use a
silly mnemonic - I have no appreciated them at any point in my younger life, so
no need to start now.

But that is not true (I have used them; not for math).  I recall that other
folks' devices seemed silly.  I did not need to benefit from them, so why must I
hear their virtues as if they were the miracle of memory?

Because they helped someone, and that someone helped another.  My lack of need
does not mean that help should not exist.

Just like this writing, it is for the folks who appreciate it.  Those who do not
may suffer its existence quietly, or loudly while far away, or they may realize
there is no one obliging them to suffer.

<time datetime="2023-10-07">Sat Oct 7 2023</time>

For real though...just count.  It is easier that subtracting from some
counterintuitive term.

---

But no no no - I wish to return to the theme.  I also wish to not reveal to
casual glance that the theme is practiced.  So I must keep some detail in my own
mind and that of anyone trusted enough to read this original.

I did try counting, but I already lost it by changing my setting.

I thought of a better memory aid anyway; no more silly substraction.  I realized
I'm approaching an end again.

---

I don't feel the same dread that affected me at the halfway mark.  Maybe because
it is the goal that I intended.  Maybe because I already unburdened myself from
that same goal.  Or that I've overcome it once.

Instead I feel an excitement to meet the goal to the best of my ability.  To
make this creative work as good as it possible can be.  The next five pages are
an opportunity, a gift, and to be treasured.  Savored.

<time datetime="2023-10-07">Sat Oct 7 2023</time>

    Not too fast.  
    Not too slow.  

---

When I put my triple-line conclusion markets in yesterday's writing, I think it
made me faster.  I was always ready to stop.  I lost lines of thought, sure, but
some thoughts deserve that fate.  The good ones found their way back to me.

    I was not paralyzed.  
    I paused for pace.  
    I kept up.  
    I went far.  

> Good thoughts end.

---

    I did not expect to have time.
    It might have been foolish to try to find it.
      I doubted when I did find.

      a nagging fear of some other, urgent attention target.
      Something that would make me regret.

    No such imaginary anguish appeared.
    I am glad I did not seek it.
    I sought this joy instead.

---

    My joy was gone.  
    I could not imagine it.  
      No matter.  
      A slow pace.  
      I will reencounter.  
    Still, who ever caught something by standing still?  
    I did.  Right where I left it.  
    It kept flying.  
    It caught me.  

---

    Twice in as many  
    Further than I've ever  
    
    I've gone so far.  

---

40.

    I am.  Successfully.  
    Where I began.  


<time datetime="2023-10-07">
    Saturday  
    October 7
</time>

> to My Wife.

[<img src="./illustration.png" alt="Book illustration.  Shown laying
upright, flipped top-to-bottom, turned upside-side, and finally upsidedown and
backwards called 'both'.  Upside-down has an arrow labeling it 'you are here'."
width=100 />](./notebook.png) 
<br style="clear: both;" />

---

[tag: writing]: /tag/writing 
